# Contributing

Before you contribute, please read the following document. It explains what can and cannot be contributed, and explains where to start with contributions.

## Contribution rules

azeroy.neocities.org aims to keep a general list of Yabujin's works for quick reference. However, there are various boundaries regarding what can and cannot be included.

### Things that we will **NOT** accept

- **Anything that Yabujin has explicitly stated he doesn't want public.** This includes, but is not limited to, the contents of such compilations as *Earlier Works Bootleg*. Out of respect for Yabujin's wishes, **we will not accept these**. Generally most things after 2019 are fine. We'll add any exceptions to this below this rule.
- **Anything that could hint at the real identity of Yabujin.** We're here to talk about the works, not the artist. Keep the mystery.

## Where to start

- If you want to add content to the main pages (e.g. add something to the lore pages), see the `src` folder and the "`src` folder structure" note below.
- If you want to add something to the video/music list, see the `data` folder and the "`data` folder structure" note below.


### Note about generators

All generator programs outlined here are written in Python 3. Make sure [you have Python installed](https://python.org).

### Most important files

- `./generate-site` - script that generates the site from the source directory and outputs the resulting HTML files and assets into the output directory. **Run this every time you change a file to test your changes.**
- `./generate-navbar` - automatically fills in missing entries in the navbar.yml files. **Run this every time you add/remove/move a page**, and fix any broken entries.
- `src` - site source code. This consists of HTML files and MD (Markdown) files.
- `data` - stores the table generator and data files for it. **You don't need to run the generate-table script there**, it's only for debugging purposes. The site generator generates the data tables automatically.

### `src` folder structure

The source (`src`) folder contains the main source templates for the pages.

Each page requires an **HTML** file, which dictates the main layout of the page. If the keyword `{{ markdown }}` is found in the file, it will automatically replace it with an HTML representation of a **Markdown** file with the same name.

For example, a file named `about.html` can have a corresponding Markdown file named `about.md`, and the contents of `about.md` will be automatically inserted into the HTML file in place of the `{{ markdown }}` keyword.

Other keywords include `{{ pagename }}`, `{{ navbar }}`, `{{ footer }}` and `{{ table('table-name') }}`.

If a Markdown file does not have a corresponding html file, the generator looks for a file named `base.html`, and uses it as the template instead. If `base.html` doesn't exist, and there is no corresponding html file, **the Markdown file will not be included in the final site** and the generator will warn about this accordingly.

Each folder has a file named `navbar.yml`, which contains navbar data in a `filename without extension: pretty name (as displayed on the site)` format.

### `data` folder structure

The `data` folder contains two files named `music-data.yml` and `video-data.yml`. These contain the data for the autogenerated tables. To learn how to edit these files, [refer to the Data reference document](data/data-reference.md).
