# Data reference

In order to make maintaining the lists easier, they are stored internally in the [YAML](https://yaml.org) format.

Here's an example entry:

```yaml
valeria-bounze: # this is the ID of the item; see 'IDs' section below for more information
	title: "DJ GYROTTA ZAO - VALERIA BOUNZE"
	release_date: [2021, 01, 9]
	channel: yabujin
	type: mv
	status: up
	links:
		"YouTube (official)": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRILmZMzGf4
```

## Data values

- `title` (required) - title of the item. In the case of music, this is the name of the original SoundCloud upload; in the case of videos, this is the full video title.
- `type` (required) - type of the item. For music, this must be one of `single`, `ep` or `album`; for videos, this must be one of `lore` (series like Azeroy), `mv` (videos for songs with static images count too) or `misc` (everything else).
- `account` (required) - account on which the item was posted. This is either `yabujin` (YABUJIN on YT/SC) or `gyrotta` (DJ GYROTTA ZAO on YT/SC).
- `status` (required) - whether the item is:
  - `up` (available from official channels - that is, Yabu's SC/YT or Spotify),
  - `purged` (deleted in the great purge of 2021, only available through reuploads),
  - `privated` (deleted/privated/unlisted before the great purge of 2021, but available through reuploads),
  - `lost` (known to exist, but not available - provide proof of existence (wayback machine links, screenshots with verifiable sources, websites like SocialBlade that may have video information))
- `length` - length of the item, in seconds. Ignored for albums and EPs, where it is automatically calculated from the sum of track lengths.
- `release_date` - [YYYY, MM, DD] or None if it's unknown. MM and DD can be set to ?? if only the year is known.
- `links` (required for non-lost) - dict containing name of source and link. For videos, this will be "YouTube (official)" or "YouTube (reupload)"; for officially released music, this will be Spotify, Apple Music, Deezer, etc.
- `content_warnings`: list of content warnings (see "Content Warnings" section below)
- `original_description`: the original description of the item (for videos, this is the original's video description ([here's some site that has some data](https://www.noxinfluencer.com/youtube/channel/UCTa23iZGmKYdyQ_hijXl3bg?tab=videos), confusingly marked as "Introduction"); for SoundCloud, this is the track description). **If the description is empty, set this to `None`**; the lack of this tag indicates that the description is currently lost.
- `notes`: string containing notes about the track
- `sources`: dict containing source type, source link/info

### Videos

- `series` (video only) - identificator of series
- `views`: list, formatted as [`amount of views`, `[YYYY-MM-DD] (last update)`]

### Music

- `plays`: list, formatted as [`amount of plays`, `[YYYY-MM-DD] (last update)`]
- `tracks` - required for albums, list of dictionaries following the format:
  ```yaml
  tracks:
    track-id:
       title:
       length: 0
  ```
  Valid keys for tracks are:
  * `title`
  * `length`
  * `links`
  * `content_warnings`
  * `plays`
  * `notes`
  * `original_description`
  * `sources`
  They all have the same purposes as described above.


### IDs

Each item has an unique ID which is used to create its URLs. This ID is usually in some way related to the title, and must **only contain alphanumeric characters** (`[a-z][A-Z][0-9]`) **and dashes** (`-`).

For music releases, this should be the track's name in the SoundCloud track URL.

The IDs are **shared between videos and music**, so make sure that none of them are clashing.

In case of clashes with other IDs, you can add a distinguishing suffix to it (like in the case of `claws-ep`, `claws-yt`...)

### Release date

This is the **original release date**, that is the upload date, of the item in question. This means your sources are the original YouTube and SoundCloud uploads, not the dates of the reuploads or streaming service releases.

### Links

Link names follow a format of "Platform (official?)". For example, for a video on the official channel, this would be "YouTube (official)"; for a reupload, this would be "YouTube (reupload)".

Dismiss Yourself YouTube uploads should be mentioned as "YouTube (dismiss yourself)", to differentiate them from the Topic channels generated by YouTube.

Streaming service uploads are also marked as official (for example "Spotify (official)"). This is to differentiate them from reuploads. **Do not add links to reuploads/unofficial uploads on streaming services** - these are usually removed rather quickly, and aren't a reliable source.

**Make sure to remove any tracking suffixes from the links**, so - pretty much everything that goes after the "?" character in the URL (with the obvious exception of `?v=` in YouTube links).

For Spotify single links, **link to the exact track, not the "album" that contains it**.

### Content warnings

**Note:** this also applies to spoiler tags in notes.

Content warnings are stored as a list and can be formatted in one of the following ways:

- `[timestamp], [description]` (`0:19, an image of ... shows up on screen for a brief second`)
- `[description that contains timestamp]` (`brief jumpscare at 0:31`)
- blanket warning - `[general description]` (`the video contains ... throughought`)

The actual sensitive part is placed between backticks (`\``), for example:

`The video displays \`vital organs\` for a split second.`

If there are more than a few appearances of the same trigger (for example, the Azeroy videos are pretty much 100% gross medical stuff), it's usually better to put a blanket warning on the whole video rather than try to tag each appearance.

#### What to add

- Any form of **gore** or **medical gore** (things like pictures of realistic organs, serious injuries, etc.)
  - This does not include cartoonish blood/violence (like the Blingee-esque blood dripping effect in MOBILE TERROR 1616).
- Other medical content (newborn baby animals, fetuses, weird deformed babies etc.)
  - Yes, that includes Yyate.
- Extreme body modifications
- Sexual references (like moans).
  - Use a warning with an approximate timestamp of the first appearance or a blanket warning if it covers the whole item, don't tag individual appearances.

#### What NOT to add

- Zentai suits, unless the content is explicitly NSFW in nature or especially prominent
  - For example, the full-body suit in VALERIA BOUNZE doesn't count; ZYDRA DO HYDORA at the end of one of the Zmul vids does
- General blanket warnings for old-web stuff, creepy vibes etc. That applies to pretty much every single video, and will be mentioned on the site appropriately.
